# Availability of Open Citations from Open Journals in Crossref
## Abstract
### Purpose
With the spread of data in the public domain, the relative advantage of holding data in closed databases has diminished. On the other hand, the data on open citations have innumerable advantages. They can improve the transparency and robustness of science portfolio analysis, improve science policy decision making, stimulate downstream commercial activity, and increase the discoverability of scientific articles. Thus, once sparsely populated, public domain citation databases passed the 1 billion citation mark in February 2021. This inquiry is therefore aimed at studying how data on open citations are treated by different aggregators and authorities, to evaluate the management of data linked to articles (references) and to have an idea of ​​how much the aggregators communicate with each other in terms of information sharing. 
### Approach
Our research involves the articles from Open Access journals in DOAJ and their data on Crossref. We scouted the availability of these articles’ reference lists, the presence of IDs such as DOIs and the entities responsible for their specification. This analysis was carried out by querying the DOAJ and Crossref’s APIs, creating datasets combining the two. The data will be further analysed to verify the distribution of the provenance of the articles' DOI.
### Findings
The results reveal that only a small portion of the articles on the DOAJ have relevant information in Crossref, but that most of them have a relevant id. Also, most of the information was given by Crossref itself. 
### Originality
While similar studies have been carried out on other resources available to academics (e.g. Google Scholar), no study has been carried out about a fully Open Source initiative such as the DOAJ. Moreover, our study will be useful a useful framework for researchers and publishers to further investigate the impact of OA journals and the distribution of the practice.